THE ENTIRE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION CAN BE
COULD YOU START USING THE ROLL
CALL TO ISTANBUL HERE BY
SHERGAR HERE COMMISSIONER
WINCKLER COMMISSIONER MEADOW'S
HERE, COMMISSIONER FOLAN EU
COMMISSIONER BARNIER HERE.
COMMISSIONER RIGHTMIRE
COMMISSIONER JACKSON HERE.
COUNCIL MEMBER GODWYN COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG WE HAVE GORM.
THANK YOU.
PUBLIC COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE HERE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT SEEING NO PUBLIC
COMMENT AGENDA.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO MOVE THE
AGENDA PLEASE MOVE TO THE
MOTION.
AGENDA IS ONE SECOND IN FAVOR.
I APPROVAL OF THE MARCH MINUTES
TO APPROVE THE MARCH MINUTES
BEFORE SEPTEMBER 11.
THE PROPER TERMINOLOGY IS
SECOND DISCUSSION OF ANY
CHANGES GREGSON'S ETC. IF THERE
ARE NONE ALL IN FAVOR I GENDER
APPROVED FOLLOWING UP ON
OUTSIDE GROUP WORK WE DO NOT
HAVE EITHER OF OUR CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT AND THEY
USUALLY SPEAK TO THIS BOTH
OF THEM OR HAVE AN IMPORTANT
PERSONAL BUSINESS.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THEY
MENTIONED TO ME WAS THAT WE
NEED IF WE ARE GOING TO IF
WE'RE GOING TO ASK FOR A
BUDGET, WE NEED TO DO THAT
QUICKLY.
AND I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT I
AM PLANNING ON DOING THAT.
I THINK THERE IS A AS OUR NEED
FOR OUTREACH INCREASES OUR NEED
FOR THE WHEREWITHAL TO DO THAT
WELL AS INCREASED AND IT IS
TIME TO ASK FOR BUDGET.
SO I AM PLANNING ON ASKING FOR
A VERY CONSERVATIVE BUDGET
FOR
OUTREACH ESPECIALLY EDUCATIONAL
MATERIALS, POSTERS, FLIERS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
OF IMPROVING WHAT WE HAVE NOW
EVENTS, PAYMENT FOR EVENTS FOR
ENTRANCE FEES, DISPLAY FEES AS
WE SAW BEFORE.
WE DON'T HAVE EVEN BUDGET TO DO
THAT TRANSPORTATION TO GO TO
OTHER PLACES.
I THINK THERE'S MORE OF A NEED
NOW THAN EVER FOR US TO BE
GOING TO EVENTS AROUND THE
STATE AND THAT IS PART OF OUR
MISSION.
I DO THAT NOW BUT IT REALLY
WOULD MAKE A LOT MORE SENSE FOR
EVERYBODY TO DO SOME OF THAT
AND SOME TRANSPORTATION
BUILDING WOULD BE NICE.
SO JUST SO YOU KNOW THAT I'M
GOING TO WRITE SOMETHING UP I'M
GOING TO SEND IT OUT TO QUICKLY
AND GIVE TO ASIA AND THEN TO
PRESENT THE REQUEST FOR BUDGET
FOLLOW UP ON ONGOING HRC WORK
WITHOUT ANY QUESTIONS OR ANY
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT I JUST
SAID.
OK, FOLLOW UP COMPLAINTS JUDA
THERE ARE NO OUTSTANDING
COMPLAINTS FROM TWO THOUSAND
TWENTY THREE AND THERE ARE TWO
THAT ARE IN PROCESS FROM TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND THERE WERE NO
NEW ONE IN 2012 THERE IS ONE OR
TWO I'M SORRY THERE'S ONE STILL
OUTSTANDING TWENTY TWENTY THREE
TO TWENTY FOUR NO NEW
COMPLAINTS WERE FILED SINCE OUR
LAST HCB.
OK AND THINGS ARE GOING WELL OR
NO QUESTIONS OR PROBLEMS ANY
QUESTIONS FOR JUDA VON
STRATEGIC PLANNING EFFORT
BRANDEE.
YES SO THERE'S BEEN SOME
UPDATES SO ESSENTIALLY MOVING
FORWARD THERE'S GOING TO BE I
JUST TRY TO GO OVER AN OVERVIEW
OF WHAT THE PROCESS WILL LOOK
LIKE.
OTHERS UPDATED.
SO KETAN, I WILL CONTINUE TO
WORK TOGETHER ON BASICALLY
GIVING A OVERVIEW OF THE
DIFFERENT COMMISSION MANDATES
THAT WE ARE ORDERED TO UPHOLD
OVERALL AND GIVING AN OVERVIEW
OF WHAT THOSE DOCUMENTS ARE.
WHAT SPECIFICALLY OUR TASK ARE
TO UPHOLD THOSE MANDATES AND
THEN GIVING CONTEXT EXAMPLES
AROUND WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE TO
GIVE US A GOOD FOUNDATION AND
GET US ALL ON THE SAME PAGE
OF WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE AND
WHAT WE MEAN BY THAT TYPE
OF WORK AND THEN BASED OFF
OF THAT THAT WILL BE KIND
OF LIKE THE BACKGROUND PIECE
FOR EVERYONE TO USE AND THEN I
HAVE A DOCUMENT THAT I'M STILL
SOMEWHAT TWEAKING AND WORKING
ON BUT INDIVIDUAL SWOT ANALYSIS
WILL BE SENT OUT TO EACH OF THE
COMMISSIONERS AS WELL.
I HAVE WE HAD INITIALLY THREE
PRIORITY AREAS AND I EXPANDED
TO FOUR ONE SPECIFICALLY JUST
FOCUSING ON ORDNANCES
RESOLUTIONS OUR COMPLAINT
PROCESS AS WELL TO ANNOUNCE OUR
GIVEN ANALYSIS OF OUR
STRENGTHS, WEAKNESSES,
OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS FOR
THOSE CATEGORIES IN PARTICULAR
.
SO WITH THIS DOCUMENT IT'LL
HAVE INFORMATION ON THE
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON HOW
THIS INFORMATION WILL BE USED.
IT WILL ALSO HAVE THE
INSTRUCTIONS FOR HOW TO
COMPLETE THE DOCUMENT.
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT'S JUST LIKE A SWOT ANALYSIS
FOR EACH OF THOSE FOUR PRIORITY
AREAS.
I HAVE QUESTIONS SPECIFICALLY
TAILORED TO EACH OF THOSE
PRIORITY AREAS AS WELL AND AN
EXAMPLE PIECES FOR WHAT TO
CONSIDER OR THINK ABOUT AS
YOU'RE GOING THROUGH THOSE
QUESTIONS.
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT EVEN
YOU DON'T HAVE THE BACKGROUND
OR IN RESPONSE TO NOTE THAT
DOWN AS WELL BECAUSE THAT CAN
HELP IDENTIFY IF THERE'S
CERTAIN GAPS THAT WE AREN'T
ADEQUATELY SHARING THE
INFORMATION OR WE'RE NOT
COLLECTING IT IN THE FIRST
PLACE, THEN WE KNOW THAT THAT'S
A GOAL THAT WE NEED TO MAKE TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE CAN FILL THAT
GAP.
SO I'M STILL GOING TO WORK ON
THAT OVERALL TO MAKE SURE IT'S
AS CLEAR AS POSSIBLE AND SHARE
THAT OUT WITH EACH OF THE
INDIVIDUAL COMMISSIONERS.
I ASK THAT EACH OF THE
INDIVIDUAL COMMISSIONERS
COMPLETE IT AND THEN SEND IT
JUST TO ME.
THERE WERE SOME CONVERSATIONS
AROUND TRYING TO KEEP SOME
SENSE OF PRIVACY AS WELL WITH
THE RESPONSES.
SO THIS WILL HOPEFULLY BE
SOMEWHAT OF THAT.
AND THEN ONCE I GET ALL THIS
INFORMATION I WILL COMPILE IT
ALL.
OF COURSE I CAN NOT ATTACH ANY
NAMES, SYNTHESIZE OR REDUCE IT
DOWN TO PREVENT JUST A
MUMBO-JUMBO OF WORDS AND BULLET
POINTS AND EVERYTHING.
AND FROM THAT POINT ONCE IT'S
KIND OF NARROWED DOWN THEN WE
CAN KIND OF MAKE SOME OF THOSE
STRATEGIC GOALS ON HOW DO WE
MAINTAIN OUR STRENGTHS THAT WE
HAVE RECOGNIZED FOR EACH OF THE
PRIORITY AREAS?
WHAT ARE THE GOALS THAT WE NEED
TO OVERCOME WEAKNESSES FOR
OPPORTUNITIES?
WHAT GOALS DO WE NEED TO SET IN
PLACE TO MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE
SEEING THOSE OPPORTUNITIES COME
TO FRUITION AND OR THREATS WHAT
GOALS WE NEED TO PUT IN PLACE
TO BE MORE PROACTIVE IN
PREVENTING THOSE THREATS FROM
TAKING PLACE SO THAT WILL BE
ONE OF THE DOCUMENTS.
I ALSO WAS ABLE TO WORK ON THE
STRATEGIC PLANNING A FEEDBACK
SURVEY THAT WILL GO TO THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE CITY
ATTORNEY AS WE MENTIONED.
SO I'LL MAKE SURE TO SEND THAT
OUT TO EVERYONE AS WELL.
IT'S ESSENTIALLY THE SAME AS A
SWOT ANALYSIS.
IT HAS FIVE QUESTIONS IN TOTAL
AGAIN JUST IDENTIFYING THE
STRENGTHS THAT THEY SEE HRC
BRINGING TO THE CITY IN ANN
ARBOR COMMUNITY AREAS FOR
IMPROVEMENT THAT THEY THINK
A.C. SHOULD LOOK INTO
OPPORTUNITIES THAT THEY WOULD
LIKE US TO PURSUE AND
ADDITIONAL BARRIERS OR
CHALLENGES THAT THEY THINK MAY
BE COMING UP THAT WE SHOULD BE
PREPARING FOR THE QUESTION IS
YES IF THEY HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
THOUGHTS THAT THEY WANT TO ADD
IN CASE THOSE QUESTIONS DON'T
CAPTURE IT COMPLETELY.
SO BASED ON ALL OF THAT
INFORMATION TOO THAT WILL ALSO
GO INTO HELPING US DETERMINE
WHAT SOME OF OUR GOALS SHOULD
BE AND HOW WE CAN HELP TO RANK
OR PRIORITIZE WHICH GOALS WE
NEED THE MOST ATTENTION AS WELL
TO.
SO YEAH, ONCE ALL OF THAT IS
DONE THEN WE WILL COMPILE IT
INTO LIKE A VERY CLEAR AND NICE
DOCUMENT THAT WILL BE EASY TO
FOLLOW AND MAKE SURE THAT WE
ARE KEEPING UP TO DATE WITH
THOSE METRICS TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE MAKING PROGRESS ON IT AS
WELL.
AND THEN AGAIN, I STILL HOPE TO
FIND A WAY TO ADD THAT AS LIKE
A REOCCURRING BULLET POINT IN
OUR AGENDA SO EACH MONTH WE CAN
MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE STILL
MAKING PROGRESS TOWARDS THOSE
STRATEGIC GOALS AND IT'S NOT
JUST SOMETHING THAT IS LEFT IN
THE DUST WE ARE PUTTING A LOT
OF WORK INTO THIS SO IT'S GOOD
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE
KEEPING UP TO DATE WITH IT
OVERALL.
SO THAT'S KIND OF JUST LIKE AN
OVERVIEW OF WHAT'S TO COME AT
DELAYS AND EVERYTHING BUT WE'LL
MAKE THAT WE GET BACK ON TRACK
AND I'M HOPING TO AT LEAST MAKE
SURE THAT WE CAN GET AS MUCH
INFORMATION FROM ALL OF OUR
COMMISSIONERS THAT ARE HERE BUT
ALSO SOON TO BE REPORTING AS
WELL.
I'LL TRY MY BEST TO MAKE SURE
THAT THIS INFORMATION GETS TO
EVERYONE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE TO
GET ALL THE INFORMATION.
BUT THAT IS RIGHT NOW WHERE
THINGS ARE AT AND HOPEFULLY
NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS EVERYTHING
SHOULD BE READY TO GO AND
ANOTHER REVISED PLAN CAN BE
PUSHED OUT AS WELL TO YOU.
IF THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS THEN FEEL FREE TO LET
ME KNOW.
COULD YOU JUST SAY THE FOUR
PRIMARY AREAS AGAIN?
YES, THE FOUR PRIORITY AREAS
ARE THE FIRST ONE IS ORDNANCES
RESOLUTIONS AND COMPLAINTS.
THE SECOND PRIORITY AREA IS
COMMISSIONER GOVERNANCE AND
ORGANIZATION IN PRIORITY AREA
THREE IS COMMUNICATIONS WHICH
INCLUDES OUTREACH AND MARKETING
AND THEN THE FOURTH PRIORITY
AREA WILL BE PROJECT
MANAGEMENT.
SO KIND OF LIKE HOW DO WE
STRUCTURE OUR PROJECTS?
HOW DO WE MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
TRACKING THINGS?
BUT THOSE ARE THE FOUR PRIORITY
AREAS PEOPLE HAVE QUESTIONED.
ARE WE STILL TALKING ABOUT
STRATEGIC PLANNING MEETING IN
APRIL OR MAY APRIL?
WE CAN DO IT IN MAY.
I WILL HAVE TO SEE I GUESS LIKE
WITH SOME OF THESE OTHER
DEVELOPMENTS IT'LL KIND
OF DEPEND BUT I THINK WE CAN
STILL TRY OUR BEST TO AIM FOR
ME.
I THINK THE ONLY THING THAT
REALLY NEEDS TO GET FINALIZED
FOR THE MOST PART IS THAT HRC,
OUR COMMISSION OR OUR MANDATE
DOCUMENT THAT WE'LL JUST GIVE
AN OVERVIEW OF ALL THE THINGS
THAT WE AIM TO UPHOLD ARE
RECHARGED WITH UPHOLDING.
SO I THINK ONCE THAT IS
FINALIZED EVERYTHING ELSE FOR
THE MOST PART SHOULD BASICALLY
BE READY TO GO AND THEN ALSO
HOPEFULLY BY APRIL AT THE END
OF APRIL I'M HOPING WE CAN HAVE
ALL OF THE FEEDBACK FROM THE
CITY COUNCIL AND CITY ATTORNEY
AND THEN ALSO ALL THE
COMMISSIONERS.
I CAN COMPILE THAT AND THEN
MAYBE PUSH IT TO LIKE MID-MAY
TO HOPEFULLY HAVE THAT THE
PLANNING SESSION AND I'LL MAKE
A PLAN FOR HOW TO FACILITATE
THAT AS WELL IN THE MOST
EFFICIENT AND QUICK WAY
POSSIBLE TO AND MORE QUESTION.
THANK YOU
PRO-BUSINESS
GOVERNMENT EDEM.
YEAH OK
SO AS FOLKS MAY RECALL
WE HAVE IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AN ORDINANCE THAT
MANDATES THAT ALL GOVERNMENT
ISSUED PHOTO ID IS EQUIVALENT
TO ALL OTHER GOVERNMENT ISSUED
PHOTO ID REGARDLESS OF THE
STATE LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT THAT
ISSUED ID THAT ISSUED THE CARD
WHICH IS WONDERFUL BECAUSE ANN
ARBOR FOLKS CAN ACCESS THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY IN THE CITY
OF DETROIT AS THE DETROIT ID
KALAMAZOO COUNTY AS THE
KALAMAZOO ID AND THAT'S JUST IN
THIS AREA THAT'S REALLY THE USE
OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
I.B. IS EXPLODED BECAUSE THERE
ARE SO MANY FOLKS THAT HAVE
BEEN EXCLUDED FROM STATE IDS
AND DRIVER'S LICENSES.
WELL, IT'S WONDERFUL TO HAVE
THE ORDINANCE BUT YOU KNOW, YOU
ALMOST HAVE TO BE A LAWYER TO
FIND THE ORDINANCE AND SHOW IT
TO SOMEONE WHO MAY BE
QUESTIONING THE EXISTENCE
OF THE LAW.
THE REQUIREMENT ACCEPTED AND
NOW WE HAVE A BONE OPTIMIZED
WEBSITE AT LOCAL DASCH GOV IP
THAT PUTS THE ABILITY TO
ENFORCE THE MANDATE THAT CITY
COUNCIL PROVIDED TO FOLKS PUTS
IT RIGHT IN THEIR HANDS AND
PHONE OPTIMIZED SITE IT POPS UP
IMMEDIATELY AND GIVES PEOPLE
ACCESS TO BOTH THE ORDINANCE
LINKS SUMMARY'S AND IT ALSO
ENABLES ANYONE WHO NEEDS TO
CONTACT US BECAUSE THEIR ID HAS
BEEN DENIED EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE
SHOWING THEM THE ORDINANCE THEY
CAN THROUGH THE PHONE UP TO MY
SITE LET US KNOW RIGHT AWAY.
GO AHEAD.
IS THERE ANY WAY THAT WEBSITE
THE URL HOWEVER COULD BE PUT ON
THE BACK OF THE ID?
YES.
THAT WHEN SOMEONE GLAD I MEAN
YES I SAY YES BECAUSE IT'S
PHYSICALLY POSSIBLE I'LL HAVE
TO GO AND TALK WITH THE COUNTY
CLERK AND AND REALLY JUST TALK
IT THROUGH.
I THINK EVEN IF IT'S JUST A
STICKER BECAUSE THAT WAY YOU
DON'T BELIEVE ME HERE GO LOOK
UP THIS ONE.
WHAT DID YOU DID YOU LOOK AT
IT?
I LOOKED IT LOOKS GREAT AND I'M
JUST THINKING IT'D BE GREAT IF
INSTEAD OF HAVING THE REMEMBER
IT OR ANYTHING IF YOU JUST HAVE
A LITTLE SCAN OR IT'S RIGHT
THERE ON THE BACK OF YOUR HEAD
IT'S A GREAT IDEA.
I'LL I'LL START TALKS
IMMEDIATELY AND SEE YEAH WE CAN
DO IT BUT YOU'RE RIGHT A
STICKER WOULD EASE EVEN
PRINTING PROBLEMS ELIMINATE
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT PUTTING IT ACTUALLY ON
THE CAR.
MR. STICKER.
YEAH BUT BECAUSE I CAN'T MAKE
IT OFFICIALLY PART OF THE ID
BUT YEAH WELL I JUST WANT TO
ALSO LIFT UP THE THE FOLKS
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY WHO
ACTUALLY DESIGNED AND
CREATED THE WEBSITE THAT IT WAS
THEIR IDEA TO PUT A PHONE
OPTIMIZED SITE TOGETHER SO THAT
IT WOULD BE EASIER FOR PEOPLE
TO ACCESS INFORMATION, EASIER
TO MAKE IT LOOK JUST MAKES THE
HARD EASIER TO USE.
SO RYAN HEISLER HELEN HOW THOSE
AND MASHONALAND HAVE BEEN
WORKING ON THIS?
WHEN I SAY YEARS I DON'T MEAN
TO OVER THREE YEARS BECAUSE
THEY BOTH WORK FULL TIME AND
FULL TIME YOU KNOW IN THE TECH
FIELD YOU KNOW 60 HOURS A WEEK
SO THANK YOU ALL.
I THINK IT REALLY JUST SHOW A
LOT OF PEOPLE ASK HOW CAN I
HELP?
HOW CAN I GET INVOLVED?
AND WITH SOME CREATIVE THOUGHT
I REALLY THINK THAT THEY HAVE
JUST DEMONSTRATED HOW WE BRING
YOUR SET OF SKILLS TO THE TABLE
AND THINK CREATIVELY ABOUT HOW
AND WHAT YOU CAN DO AND BENEFIT
FOLKS THAT MAY NEED SOME
ASSISTANCE IN WHATEVER AREA AND
DELIVER AND I MEAN MY GOODNESS,
ATTENTION SPAN, STAMINA,
COMMITMENT, SENSE OF COMMUNITY
THEY ARE AMAZING AND I ALSO
WANT TO THINK DAVIDMAN BENJAMIN
FOSTER AND MICHAEL CRPES AND
WE NEED TO BEFORE WE LET GO AT
LEAST FOR OUR PART PORTION
OF IT WE NEED TO PASS IT BY
MARCIE BARABBA OH YES.
AND I ALSO WANT TO ASK YOU IS
EVERYBODY SEEN THIS LOCAL TO
THAT I REALLY RECOMMEND YOU
PULL IT UP ON YOUR PHONE.
YOU HAVE TO GO GOT THAT IDEA.
I'M GOING TO KEEP SAYING IT.
WHERE DID IT LEAVE?
YOU SEE WHAT IT IS?
I MEAN BECAUSE I KEEP TALKING.
KEEP TALKING WHAT WHAT WHAT IT
IS IS AN APP THAT IF FOR
EXAMPLE YOU GO INTO A DRUGSTORE
AND YOU WANT TO PICK YOU WANT
TO BUY SOME LIQUOR FOR YOU
PRESCRIPTION MEDICINE,
PRESCRIPTION MEDICINE OR
WHATEVER YOU NEED THAT HAS TO
DO WITH I.D. AND AND THE
CONFIRMATION OF YOUR MAJORITY
SAID THAT YOU'VE REACHED THE
AGE OF MAJORITY HERE.
BANKS HAVE TO ACCEPT IT.
IT'S THE BANK IS LOCATED IN THE
CITY THEN IT'S FABULOUS.
BUT THIS IS THIS IS FOR FOR NEW
ORDINANCES THAT PEOPLE AREN'T
NECESSARILY FAMILIAR WITH UNTIL
THEY'RE PRESENTED WITH SOMEBODY
WHO SAYS WELL IT'S A LAW YOU
HAVE TO ACCEPT MY ID CARD AND
THEY SAY I'VE NEVER HEARD OF IT
BEFORE.
I DON'T WANT TO HAVE TO ACCEPT
IT AND YOU DON'T HAPPEN TO HAVE
A COPY OF THE ORDINANCE WITH
YOU AT THE TIME WHICH IS KIND
OF UNWIELDY.
YOU CAN USE AN APP ON YOUR
PHONE WHICH BASICALLY IS
SOMEBODY IS IS A LIST OF WHY
THIS IS THE ORDINANCE AND WHY
IT NEEDS TO BE ACCEPTED AND
IT'S WRITTEN IN ENGLISH.
SO IT'S VERY EASY TO UNDERSTAND
AND THAT'S AND THERE'S THERE'S
SOMETHING ELSE ON IT.
IT'S NICE AND THAT IS IF
SOMEBODY STILL DOESN'T BELIEVE
THERE IS A WAY TO SEND THE HRC
INFORMATION ABOUT WHO IT IS TO
CONTACTED SO THAT WE CAN HAVE A
SO EVERYONE IF I PULL UP THAT
SITE IT'S A PHONE OPTIMIZED
SITE LOCAL DASH GULFTON IF
YOU'VE GOT THE WASHTENAW COUNTY
I.D. AND ANYONE QUESTIONS IT,
THE CITY ORDINANCE IS RIGHT
THERE SO PEOPLE CAN ENFORCE IT
THEMSELVES.
THAT'S WHAT I REALLY LIKE.
YOU KNOW, IT'S EQUALLY
OFF-PUTTING TO NEED SOMEONE
ELSE TO ENFORCE YOUR RIGHTS
WHEN THE ORDINANCE IS PUBLICLY
AVAILABLE AND EASY TO ACCESS
ALSO I FEEL LIKE IT REALLY
BRINGS THE COMMUNITY TOGETHER
BECAUSE WE CAN COMMUNICATE WITH
FOLKS BUT HAVE THE ID, WE CAN
COMMUNICATE ABOUT THIS IDEA IS
A WONDERFUL IDEA SO WONDERFUL
IT MIGHT BE USEFUL TO USE THE
SAME FORMAT FOR OTHER SORT
OF ORDINANCES THAT PEOPLE NEED
TO REFERENCE.
RIGHT.
LESLIE WAS SAYING THAT PEOPLE
STILL ARE CARRYING A PAPER COPY
OF THE SOURCE OF INCOME AND
PROVISIONS IN THE
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE
BECAUSE YOU KNOW LANDLORDS
CHALLENGES.
YES, WE'VE GOT A COUPLE
ORDINANCES THAT PEOPLE DON'T
PROBABLY AREN'T WIDELY SEEN OR
UNDERSTOOD AND PEOPLE WHO NEED
HOUSING ESPECIALLY.
BUT YES, I WAS ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT IS A SOURCE
OF INCOME.
ONE OF THEM IS FOR TRANS
HOUSING AND THERE MAY BE
ANOTHER ONE THAT I THOUGHT
THERE WERE FOR AND I CAN'T
REMEMBER.
THE FOURTH IS WHETHER FAIRLY
NEW AND PEOPLE REALLY NEED TO
BE ARMED TO SAY THIS TO BE ABLE
TO SHOW QUICKLY THAT THIS IS IN
FACT AN ORDINANCE THAT HAS BEEN
PASSED THAT'S OUT THERE RIGHT
NOW.
AND SO WE MIGHT LOOK AT HOW
WELL THIS THIS APP WORKS AND
THE APPLY ELSEWHERE.
HELEN RYAN, SUCH A GREAT IDEA.
WE CAN USE IT FOR DIFFERENT
AUDIENCES.
I MEAN I THINK IT'S WONDERFUL
HAVING IT ON THE BOOKS AND
HAVING PEOPLE THAT KNOW ABOUT
IT DOES HELP PROTECT.
RIGHT.
PAM.
AND SO A COUPLE OF THINGS.
WILL THERE BE OR IS THERE
CURRENTLY IN PLACE IN ADDITION
TO THE YOU ARE ALL THAT JULIA
MENTIONED WHERE INDIVIDUALS CAN
ACCESS IT UTILIZING A QR CODE ?
OH, YOU ARE CALLED EXCELLENT
JABALLAH JUST ASKING RIGHT
SECURITY OUT OF KUDOS TO THE
PERSONS THAT YOU MENTIONED THAT
WERE INSTRUMENTAL IN GETTING
YOU THIS FAR AND THEN THE WHAT
WAS THE OTHER QUESTION I WAS
GOING TO ASK.
OH SO BRINGING UP AN OLD
SUBJECT NOT THAT IT'S
NECESSARILY OLD BUSINESS BUT
YOU YOU MAY RECALL THAT I HAVE
BEEN PUSHING FOR US TO DO A
PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT ON
SO I'M GOING TO RECOMMEND THAT
WE PICK THAT BACK UP AFTER OUR
STRATEGIC PLANNING MEETING
BECAUSE I'M SURE IT'S RIGHT AND
IT'S GOING TO HAVE SOME IDEAS
ABOUT WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE
YOU
KNOW, SET DEADLINES ARE DATES
FOR THAT BEING ACCOMPLISHED.
BUT GIVEN WHAT WE'VE JUST
DISCUSSED TODAY, THERE ARE
SEVERAL ITEMS THAT WOULD BE
ABSOLUTELY CRITICAL THAT WE
MAKE KNOWN TO THE PUBLIC
BECAUSE IT APPEARS TO BE THE
BEST KEPT SECRET.
NOBODY KNOWS.
SO I'M JUST GOING TO PUT THAT
OUT THERE AND TARGET THAT AS A
DISCUSSION POINT WITH THE
INTENT TO MOVE FORWARD WITH IT
AT THE STRATEGIC PLANNING
MEETING AND THEN SUBSEQUENTLY.
SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON.
EXCELLENT.
WE'LL SEE HOW THIS WORKS AND
THEN WE WILL FOR ALL THINGS I
WOULDN'T BE ABLE BROWN OH NO
QUESTION BECAUSE I CAN'T I'M
NOT GOING TO ASK FOLKS TO
VOLUNTEER THEIR TIME TO DO FIVE
OR SIX DIFFERENT COULD WOULD WE
APPROACH THE CITY ABOUT THIS
SEPARATELY AND IT WOULD BE
SEPARATE AND APART FROM THE
COMMISSION'S BUDGET.
WHO WOULD WE TALK TO ABOUT A
BUDGET TO DEVELOP THE SITES
THAT WE JUST TALKED ABOUT?
WE NEED TO I GUESS I DON'T KNOW
I GUESS WHAT WE NEED WE WOULD
APPROACH WHEN IT'S TIME WE WE
WILL GET AND WE HAVE TO GET
SOME ESTIMATE OF HOW MUCH IT
WOULD COST AND AND THEN WE WE
WOULD SEND IT TO OK BUT NOT IN
THE JUST TO SAY YES.
YES.
ALL RIGHT GOOD.
I THINK THAT WOULD WORK OK,
YES.
LOOK ONE QUESTION TO ASK YOU.
I THINK THAT WOULD WORK OK,
YOU MENTIONED THERE WAS A BID
LOOK ONE QUESTION TO ASK YOU.
FOR THE WASSENAAR ID IS THAT
YOU MENTIONED THERE WAS A BID
WAS THAT PASSED YOU MEAN THE
FOR THE WASSENAAR ID IS THAT
LAUNCH?
WAS THAT PASSED YOU MEAN THE
WELL, I THOUGHT YES.
LAUNCH?
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LAUNCH
WELL, I THOUGHT YES.
BUT AFTER MARGARET GOES THROUGH
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LAUNCH
AND APPROVES THAT WASN'T LIKE
BUT AFTER MARGARET GOES THROUGH
LOST.
AND APPROVES THAT WASN'T LIKE
YES.
LOST.
THIS IS A SOFT LAUNCH.
YES.
OK, YEAH OK.
THIS IS A SOFT LAUNCH.
THAT IS EXCELLENT TRAFFIC STOP
OK, YEAH OK.
RESOLUTION THIS I WANTED TO
THAT IS EXCELLENT TRAFFIC STOP
RAISE IT BECAUSE IT'S BEEN TWO
RESOLUTION THIS I WANTED TO
YEARS SINCE WE TALKED ABOUT
RAISE IT BECAUSE IT'S BEEN TWO
TRAFFIC STOP DATA AND THIS
YEARS SINCE WE TALKED ABOUT
MONTH AND TOWARD THE END OF THE
TRAFFIC STOP DATA AND THIS
MONTH IT IS GOING TO FINALIZE
MONTH AND TOWARD THE END OF THE
AND HOPEFULLY APPROVE THEIR
MONTH IT IS GOING TO FINALIZE
RESOLUTION TO CITY COUNCIL THAT
AND HOPEFULLY APPROVE THEIR
TRAFFIC STOP.
RESOLUTION TO CITY COUNCIL THAT
CAN DATA CONTINUE TO BE
TRAFFIC STOP.
COLLECTED AND HOPEFULLY THEY
CAN DATA CONTINUE TO BE
WILL ADD AND ANALYZED.
COLLECTED AND HOPEFULLY THEY
DO YOU KNOW PEOPLE THINK WELL
WILL ADD AND ANALYZED.
WE'VE GOTTEN IT, WE'VE SEEN IT.
DO YOU KNOW PEOPLE THINK WELL
WE NEED BUT THINGS HAVE CHANGED
WE'VE GOTTEN IT, WE'VE SEEN IT.
SINCE THE TRAFFIC SINCE SINCE
WE NEED BUT THINGS HAVE CHANGED
WE GOT THE LAST RESULTS WE HAVE
SINCE THE TRAFFIC SINCE SINCE
NOW WHAT IS CALLED I THINK THE
WE GOT THE LAST RESULTS WE HAVE
DRIVING A QUALITY ORDINANCE THE
NOW WHAT IS CALLED I THINK THE
DRIVE DRIVE.
DRIVING A QUALITY ORDINANCE THE
NO, NO, THIS IS I THINK IT'S
DRIVE DRIVE.
CALLED DRIVING EQUALITY QUALITY
NO, NO, THIS IS I THINK IT'S
AND IT IS THE THING THAT
CALLED DRIVING EQUALITY QUALITY
PREVENTS POLICE FROM DOING
AND IT IS THE THING THAT
NUISANCE NUISANCE DOBS STOPS
PREVENTS POLICE FROM DOING
AND THAT SHOULD MAKE A
NUISANCE NUISANCE DOBS STOPS
DIFFERENCE IN THE RESULTS
AND THAT SHOULD MAKE A
OF THE DATA.
DIFFERENCE IN THE RESULTS
BUT WE WANT TO KNOW AND YOU
OF THE DATA.
DON'T KNOW UNLESS YOU CAN KEEP
BUT WE WANT TO KNOW AND YOU
UNLESS YOU ANALYZE THE DATA YOU
DON'T KNOW UNLESS YOU CAN KEEP
CAN'T ANALYZE THE DATA UNLESS
UNLESS YOU ANALYZE THE DATA YOU
YOU HAVE RESOLUTION THAT
CAN'T ANALYZE THE DATA UNLESS
ENSURES YOU'RE GOING TO KEEP
YOU HAVE RESOLUTION THAT
GATHERING THAT IS THERE WHEN
ENSURES YOU'RE GOING TO KEEP
YOU NEED TO ANALYZE IT WHICH
GATHERING THAT IS THERE WHEN
MAY BE IN A YEAR OR SO.
YOU NEED TO ANALYZE IT WHICH
SO YOU'LL SEE THAT COMING UP
MAY BE IN A YEAR OR SO.
NEXT MONTH BECAUSE THEY DON'T
SO YOU'LL SEE THAT COMING UP
HAVE A FINALIZED VERSION YET.
NEXT MONTH BECAUSE THEY DON'T
OUR VERSION PROBABLY SAY
HAVE A FINALIZED VERSION YET.
SOMETHING LIKE BECAUSE WE WANT
OUR VERSION PROBABLY SAY
TO SUPPORT IPEX RESOLUTION BUT
SOMETHING LIKE BECAUSE WE WANT
THEN ADD A FEW THINGS ABOUT WHY
TO SUPPORT IPEX RESOLUTION BUT
IT'S ALSO A HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUE
THEN ADD A FEW THINGS ABOUT WHY
.
IT'S ALSO A HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUE
YOU KNOW THERE ARE TWO SO YOU
.
GOT A COPY OF THE OLD
YOU KNOW THERE ARE TWO SO YOU
RESOLUTION IF YOU WANT TO READ
GOT A COPY OF THE OLD
IT BUT IT'S NOT FINAL YET.
RESOLUTION IF YOU WANT TO READ
IT'S GOING TO SAY I WAS THIS IS
IT BUT IT'S NOT FINAL YET.
A RESOLUTION TALK IS
IT'S GOING TO SAY I WAS THIS IS
CONSIDERED.
A RESOLUTION TALK IS
YES.
CONSIDERED.
BUT THEY HAVEN'T PASSED YET.
YES.
THEY HAVEN'T PASSED IT AND THEY
BUT THEY HAVEN'T PASSED YET.
THE CIRCLES SHOW ACTUALLY THE
THEY HAVEN'T PASSED IT AND THEY
CHANGES THAT THEY'RE
THE CIRCLES SHOW ACTUALLY THE
CONSIDERING.
CHANGES THAT THEY'RE
SO WHO WROTE THE CIRCLE THIS
CONSIDERING.
CIRCLES WERE FROM THAT
SO WHO WROTE THE CIRCLE THIS
DIRECTORY KARPIAK WHO IS AT
CIRCLES WERE FROM THAT
EASTERN UNIVERSITY WHO WHO
DIRECTORY KARPIAK WHO IS AT
KNOWS HOW HE RAN THE ANALYSIS
EASTERN UNIVERSITY WHO WHO
LAST TWO YEARS A YEAR AGO.
KNOWS HOW HE RAN THE ANALYSIS
OK, SO HE'S NOT ON IT.
LAST TWO YEARS A YEAR AGO.
HE'S NOT ON IT BUT HE IS BUT
OK, SO HE'S NOT ON IT.
HE'S A RESEARCHER WHO TOOK THE
HE'S NOT ON IT BUT HE IS BUT
ANALYSIS OK AND SO I'M RIGHT.
HE'S A RESEARCHER WHO TOOK THE
CAN YOU REMIND ME SO THE THERE
ANALYSIS OK AND SO I'M RIGHT.
WAS LIKE A ONE TIME DENHA DUMP
CAN YOU REMIND ME SO THE THERE
BUT NOW THEY'RE TRYING TO GET
WAS LIKE A ONE TIME DENHA DUMP
ONGOING TRANSPARENT DATA
BUT NOW THEY'RE TRYING TO GET
PUBLICLY.
ONGOING TRANSPARENT DATA
THAT'S RIGHT.
PUBLICLY.
OK AND THEY INTEND TO DO THIS
THAT'S RIGHT.
WELL YOU NEED YOU NEED MORE
OK AND THEY INTEND TO DO THIS
DATA THAN THEY HAVE ON THEIR
WELL YOU NEED YOU NEED MORE
THEY HAVE THEY HAVE A DASHBOARD
DATA THAN THEY HAVE ON THEIR
PUBLISHED.
THEY HAVE THEY HAVE A DASHBOARD
SO I THINK THAT THE POLICE WE
PUBLISHED.
TRIED TO TALK TO THE POLICE TO
SO I THINK THAT THE POLICE WE
FIND OUT WHAT DATA THEY HAVE.
TRIED TO TALK TO THE POLICE TO
WE DON'T ACTUALLY KNOW AND SO
FIND OUT WHAT DATA THEY HAVE.
WE'RE NOT COMFORTABLE I MEAN
WE DON'T ACTUALLY KNOW AND SO
THEY PUT SOMETHING ON A
WE'RE NOT COMFORTABLE I MEAN
DASHBOARD BECAUSE IT'S NOT
THEY PUT SOMETHING ON A
ENOUGH FOR GOOD ANALYSIS.
DASHBOARD BECAUSE IT'S NOT
THEY REALLY NEED TO DO THE
ENOUGH FOR GOOD ANALYSIS.
WHOLE KIND OF AND IN FACT THEY
THEY REALLY NEED TO DO THE
NEED TO DO TO COLLECT MORE DATA
WHOLE KIND OF AND IN FACT THEY
THAN THEY'RE NOW COLLECTING
NEED TO DO TO COLLECT MORE DATA
LIKE DATA THAT THEY COLLECTED
THAN THEY'RE NOW COLLECTING
BEFORE ONLY HAS TO DO WITH WHAT
LIKE DATA THAT THEY COLLECTED
HAPPENED AT THE TRAFFIC STOP
BEFORE ONLY HAS TO DO WITH WHAT
BUT NOT NECESSARY WHAT HAPPENED
HAPPENED AT THE TRAFFIC STOP
NEXT LIKE WHERE PEOPLE WHERE
BUT NOT NECESSARY WHAT HAPPENED
THEY REST IS WAS SORT OF THING.
NEXT LIKE WHERE PEOPLE WHERE
RIGHT.
THEY REST IS WAS SORT OF THING.
SO SO THERE'S SOMETHING
RIGHT.
THERE'RE SOME CHANGES IN THE
SO SO THERE'S SOMETHING
TRAFFIC STOP DATA THAT WE LIKE
THERE'RE SOME CHANGES IN THE
AND THERE ARE IN FACT YEAH.
TRAFFIC STOP DATA THAT WE LIKE
AND THERE ARE SOME YOU HAVE TO
AND THERE ARE IN FACT YEAH.
THE POLICE ALREADY LIKE EVERY
AND THERE ARE SOME YOU HAVE TO
TIME THEY DO A TRAFFIC STOP
THE POLICE ALREADY LIKE EVERY
THEY ENTER ALL THE INFORMATION
TIME THEY DO A TRAFFIC STOP
SOMEWHERE OR HOW DOES IT WORK?
THEY ENTER ALL THE INFORMATION
THEY ARE NOT CLEAR AND I'M NOT
SOMEWHERE OR HOW DOES IT WORK?
EITHER I MEAN YES IT IS IT'S
THEY ARE NOT CLEAR AND I'M NOT
SOMEHOW AN AUTOMATED PROCESS
EITHER I MEAN YES IT IS IT'S
BUT WHAT IS COLLECTED AND WHAT
SOMEHOW AN AUTOMATED PROCESS
IS COLLECTED AND WHAT IS NOT
BUT WHAT IS COLLECTED AND WHAT
COLLECT IT IS INTERESTING.
IS COLLECTED AND WHAT IS NOT
IT'S COLLECTED VIA I THINK
COLLECT IT IS INTERESTING.
THERE'S A THERE'S A VENDOR
IT'S COLLECTED VIA I THINK
INVOLVED.
THERE'S A THERE'S A VENDOR
DID YOU HAVE MORE INFORMATION?
INVOLVED.
YEAH.
DID YOU HAVE MORE INFORMATION?
SO THEY DO HAVE A DATABASE
YEAH.
SYSTEM THAT DOES USE TO COLLECT
SO THEY DO HAVE A DATABASE
THAT INFORMATION BUT THE
SYSTEM THAT DOES USE TO COLLECT
SPECIFIC INFORMATION IN THE
THAT INFORMATION BUT THE
DRAFT RESOLUTION IS REQUESTING
SPECIFIC INFORMATION IN THE
IS NOT ALL IN THAT DATABASE.
DRAFT RESOLUTION IS REQUESTING
SO THEY ARE REQUESTING OK SO
IS NOT ALL IN THAT DATABASE.
LIKE AFTER AN OFFICER DOES STOP
SO THEY ARE REQUESTING OK SO
THEN THEY HAVE TO PUT SOME
LIKE AFTER AN OFFICER DOES STOP
INFORMATION INTO SOME KIND
THEN THEY HAVE TO PUT SOME
OF DATABASE.
INFORMATION INTO SOME KIND
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET MORE
SO
THERE WILL BE MORE COMING, MORE
INFORMATION COMING ABOUT THAT.
SARA, DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING THAT
YOU'D LIKE TO TALK ABOUT IN
TERMS OF LGBTQ RIGHTS?
YEAH, SO I'M KIND OF WAITING TO
HEAR BACK FROM CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS STILL SO I DON'T REALLY
HAVE MORE TO SHARE THAN THEY
DID LAST MONTH.
OBVIOUSLY THERE'S A LOT GOING
ON.
TRAVIS HAS NOT RESPONDED TO MY
EMAILS.
I SAID THEORETICALLY SHE'S
LEANING TOWARD WAITING TO MOVE
FORWARD UNTIL THE STATEVILLE
CODE IS RESOLVED.
BUT I WANTED TO GET A CONSENSUS
FROM THE CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S A
WAY TO MOVE THAT FORWARD.
YOU'RE FOCUSING ON THE LAVATORY
ISSUE SO THERE'S TWO PIECES BUT
I ASK THEM FOR CLARITY ON BOTH
IN TERMS OF YOU KNOW, I DON'T
HAVE THE DECISION.
I DON'T HAVE THE POWER TO MAKE
THE DECISION ABOUT WHETHER
THOSE FORWARD OR NOT.
SO I KIND OF NEED THEIR GO
AHEAD TO CONTINUE.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S WORTH
IT IF THOSE COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE
KIND OF HAVE A LOT ON THEIR
PLATE RIGHT NOW, IT'S WORTH
CONNECTING WITH THE REST
OF CITY COUNCIL OR WHAT YOU ALL
RECOMMEND OR HAVE THOUGHTS
ABOUT QUESTIONS.
I'M INTERESTED.
ARE YOU YOU'RE STILL LOOKING AT
THE ISSUES THAT THAT COMMUNITY
IS FACING RIGHT NOW, IS THAT
RIGHT?
SO WE HAD DONE LIKE A WHOLE
BRAINSTORMING PROCESS AND
OF COURSE THERE'S ALL SORTS
OF ISSUES THAT ARE RELEVANT.
YOU TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE FOLKS
IN OUR SEXUAL IDENTITY IDS ARE
RELEVANT ALSO YOU KNOW, ALL
SORTS OF EVERY ANYTHING CAN BE
.
BUT WE HAD KIND OF DECIDED THAT
WE WANTED TO FOCUS ON BATHROOM
BILLS AND SHIELD LAWS,
SANCTUARY LAWS.
SO THOSE WERE THE TWO THAT I
KIND OF BEEN TALKING TO MARGAY
ABOUT.
OK, BUT YEAH, I'M ASKING YOU
BECAUSE I KNOW THE NOVEL THAT'S
GOING ON AND I WONDERED IF
YOU'RE PICKING UP SIGNS
OF OTHER THINGS THAT WE SHOULD
BE LOOKING AT AS YOU'RE TALKING
TO THEM ABOUT THE MAIN FOCUS.
YEAH, I MEAN I THINK THOSE WERE
THE PIECES THAT WE WANTED TO
MOVE FORWARD FIRST WE TALKED
LAST MONTH ABOUT LIKE
CONVERSION THERAPY AND FORCING
THOSE BANS AND THINGS LIKE THAT
AND I HAD CONNECTED WITH SOME
OTHER FOLKS ABOUT THAT.
THE TREVOR PROJECT IS IN THE
PROCESS OF THAT TO YES.
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
THAT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE IT
WOULD BE EASY FOR KIDS.
I MEAN UNFORTUNATELY
FORTUNATELY I DON'T KNOW THAT
WE HAVE A NEED BUT IT WOULD BE
NICE TO SEE IF ONE PERSON
THAT'S TO HAVE THAT KIND
OF NEWS.
THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT WOULD BE TRUE.
AND SO AND WE DON'T KNOW WE
THAT'S RIGHT.
JUST NEVER HAVE HAD NOT HAD A
AND SO AND WE DON'T KNOW WE
COMPLAINT, YOU KNOW, WE DON'T
JUST NEVER HAVE HAD NOT HAD A
KNOW THERE'D BE VERY NO ONE HAS
COMPLAINT, YOU KNOW, WE DON'T
SAID THAT WE
THAT IS AN
INTERESTING WAY TO GO.
I YEAH, IT'S A GREAT IDEA.
OK, NO QUESTIONS.
MOVE ON.
CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE SO I I
WAS SENT THE INFORMATION IN
FEBRUARY AND I HAD TO CALL
LESLIE TODAY TO FIND I BROUGHT
YOU AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT WE GET.
THIS IS THE ACTUAL DATA SENT TO
US BY PURCHASING THAT I WILL
THEN COMPILE AND SUMMARIZE AND
SEND TO US THIS IS FOR 22 AND
23 BUT ACTUALLY COMES INTO THE
FIRST QUARTER OF TWENTY FOUR.
SO THIS IS ALL OF THE
CONTRACTORS WHO DO BUSINESS
WITH THE CITY ON A QUARTERLY
BASIS ANYTHING GREATER THAN
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND SINCE WE
TOOK UP THE RESPONSIBILITY AND
IT IS PART OF OUR ORDINANCE TO
CONFIRM AND VERIFY A NUMBER
OF THINGS.
HOW MANY ARE ACTUAL CONTRACTORS
IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR VERSUS
ALL OF THE OTHERS WHO MAY BE
OUTSIDE?
HOW MANY HAVE CONTRACTS THAT
EXCEED A MILLION DOLLARS OR
MORE AND THEN ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND MORE?
SO I'VE BROKEN IT UP IN THAT
AND THEN SINCE WE STARTED THIS
WITH IT BEING PART OF THE
ORDINANCE THE CITY HAS
CONTRACTED WITH AN INDIVIDUAL
CHECKING TO SEE IF I HAVE THAT
MAN WHO WILL TAKE OVER THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF VERIFYING
THAT CONTRACTORS ARE COMPLIANT
WITH THE INDIO OUR
DISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE.
WHAT LESLIE AND I HAVE DONE IN
THE PAST AND WE WANT TO HAVE A
FOLLOW UP MEETING WITH COLIN
SPENCER.
SPENCER, THANK YOU.
BECAUSE HE HAD THAT
RESPONSIBILITY SOLELY AND NOW
THAT HAS SHIFTED I BELIEVE AND
I'M READING QUICKLY TO SEE THE
NAME OF THE PERSON BUT AT ANY
RATE THE CITY HAS HIRED SOMEONE
ELSE TO PERFORM SOME OF THE
RESPONSIBILITIES OF A DIFFERENT
CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE TO OUR
ORDINANCE.
IS IT A PERSON OR LIKE AN
ENTITY?
NO, I'M ACTUALLY READING THE
LEGISLATION DETAILS IN ITS IN
HERE.
I THOUGHT HE MENTIONED THE NAME
AND THAT'S WHAT I WAS GOING TO
HAVE READ INTO THE RECORD.
YOU THINK IT'S A SUBORDINATE.
NO NO IT'S A SPECIALLY
CREATED POSITION THAT WAS
CHARGED WITH TAKING OVER A
CERTAIN PART OF THIS.
I SEE AND I DON'T I THOUGHT I
HAD PRINTED IT.
I GUESS I DIDN'T BUT HE
MENTIONED IT WHEN HE SUBMITTED
THE DATA FOR US TO REVIEW.
LET'S SEE.
YEP.
HERE WE GO.
OK, I'LL JUST READ INTO THE
RECORD WHAT HE HAS SAID CITY
PURCHASING WILL BE TAKING A
LESS PROMINENT ROLE WITH THE
INITIAL REPORTING IN THIS
REPORT AND IN THE FUTURE MOVING
FORWARD THE RELATIVELY NEWER
CITY UNIT OF OFFICE
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY LED BY
LAURA OR TOM OR RTA WILL BE
TAKING OVER PRIMARY PRIMARY
RESPONSIBLE PARTIES OF THIS
NEARLY ANNUAL REPORT AND WILL
BE WORKING DIRECTLY WITH THE
HRC.
SO THERE IS A DEPARTMENT AND A
SPECIFIC INDIVIDUAL WHO IS
GOING TO BE TAKING OVER THIS
PORTION OF THE CONTRACTOR
COMPLIANCE.
SO LESLIE AND I HAVE TEST
OURSELVES WITH SETTING UP THAT
MEETING A FOLLOW THROUGH
BECAUSE IN OUR VERY LIMITED
EFFORTS WHEN WE FIRST TOOK ON
THIS RESPONSIBILITY WE FOUND
THAT AT LEAST THREE PERHAPS
FOUR OF THE CONTRACTORS WERE
NONCOMPLIANT WITH POSTING THE
AUDIO.
THERE ARE SOME OTHER
REQUIREMENTS THAT CONTRACTORS
ARE MANDATED BY OUR ORDINANCE
TO DO.
ONE IS TO MAKE A GOOD FAITH
EFFORT TO TRY AND HIRE LOCALLY
THE OTHER WHICH IS A PROBABLY A
LITTLE BIT MORE DETAIL AND
INVOLVED IS ANY FEDERAL
CONTRACTORS HAVE AN OBLIGATION
TO SO IF ANY OF THESE ARE
CONTRACTORS ARE FEDERAL
CONTRACTORS, THEY HAVE EVEN
MORE RESPONSIBILITY FOR BEING
COMPLIANT WITH THE WITH THE
BILL NOT JUST POSTING AND
TRYING TO MAKE A GOOD FAITH
EFFORT TO HIRE LOCALLY BUT THEY
ALSO HAVE TO DO SOME ADDITIONAL
REPORTING.
SO THAT IS PROBABLY SOMETHING
WE HOPE TO HAVE FOR EITHER THE
NEXT MEETING OR THE STRATEGIC
PLANNING MEETING SO THAT WE THE
GOAL IS AT THIS POINT TO SET UP
A MEETING WITH EITHER COLLIN OR
LAURA OR TO MY GUESS IS WE'LL
ALSO BE DEALING WITH
VANDENBOSCH.
YEAH.
SO WE HAVE A NUMBER OF THINGS
THAT WE WANT TO ENSURE OUR CITY
IS COMPLIANT WITH, ESPECIALLY
AS IT RELATES TO OUR ORDINANCE
AND THEN WHAT EFFORTS THEY HAVE
DOCUMENTED EFFORTS THAT THEY
HAVE TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE
BECAUSE AS I SAID BEFORE,
LESLIE IN MY LIMITED EFFORTS
RESULTED IN AT LEAST THREE
PERHAPS FOUR THAT ARE NON
COMPLY WITH JUST POSTING.
YES.
AND NOT SUPPOSED TO BE THERE.
SO HERE'S THE THING EVERY
EMPLOYER WHO HAS AT LEAST 50
PERSONS EMPLOYED IS MANDATED TO
POST NOT ONLY FEDERAL BUT STATE
POSTERS AND THEY HAVE TO BE THE
LATEST VERSION OF OUR INDIO
ALWAYS RIGHT UP THERE WITH
THAT.
SO IF THEY HAVE A BOARD OR
PLACE WHERE THAT IS
CONSPICUOUSLY POSTED ON THEIR
PREMISES, THEY SHOULD BE THERE
ARE PENALTIES AND FINES THAT
ARE SEVERE FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
THE SAME APPLIES FOR OUR
ORDINANCE.
SO FIRST A MEETING WITH THE
POWERS THAT BE AND THEN HOW
THEY'RE DOCUMENTING OR NOT AND
THEN FOLLOW UP TO SEE WHERE WE
ARE STEPPING IN OR TO EQUITY
AND I BELIEVE THE CONTACT
PERSONALLY DIRECTLY WANT TO
TALK TO THIS TRACY BIRD.
OK, AND SHE CAME TO THE HRC
MEETING AGAIN.
YES.
OK.
BUT YOUR OFFICE OFFERING AN
ADDITIONAL I'M SURE IT'S JUST
THE EMAIL THAT WAS SENT TO
MOSCOW AND SHE FORWARDED IT TO
ME AND THEREFORE WE CLEARLY
NEEDED A DIFFERENT POSTER.
YES.
BECAUSE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
HAVE SUBSEQUENTLY ADDED SINCE
IT WAS LAST REVISED.
YEAH.
BUT ALSO BECAUSE I THINK WE
ASKED FOR A SEPARATE POSTER
DON'T WRITE A NOTE I THINK WE
DID FOR B IN THE BOX I THINK
BARNABUS YEAH WELL IT'LL BE
SOMETHING SEPARATE AND
DISTINCT.
YEAH OUR POSTER IT TENDS TO
JUST IS TEXT AND IT TENDS TO
JUST RUN ON WITH HERE ALL THE
AREAS THAT OUR POSTER IS IS
FOCUSED ON THE EMPLOYEES OF THE
CONTRACT CITY CONTRACTOR
WHEREAS THE BAN THE BOX IS ON
THE COMPANY THAT HIRES THE
PEOPLE SO SO YOU NEED A
DIFFERENT IT'S GOT DIFFERENT
AUDIENCE.
YEAH.
SO I WILL COMPILE THIS IT TAKES
ABOUT AN HOUR BECAUSE I CUT AND
PASTE AND PUT IT BECAUSE IT'S
LITERALLY LIKE IT'S LENGTHY AND
I NEED TO READ ACROSS TO SEE
THE DOLLAR AMOUNT AND THEN
WHETHER THEY'RE ARNAB OR WHAT
THE REPORT SHOWS IS OVERALL AND
YEAR OVER IN IS AND I RECEIVES
THE LEAST PERCENTAGE OF THE
CONTRACT THAT ARE AVAILABLE AND
ALL OF THE ONES THAT TEND TO BE
I THINK JUST FROM LAST YEAR TO
PRESENT ONLY ONE IN OUR
CONTRACT I RECEIVE A CONTRACT
EXCEEDING A MILLION DOLLARS
JUST ONE JUST ONE OUT OF A
UNIVERSE OF TEN AND THEY HAVE
ANYWHERE NOR ARE THERE ANY ON
YOUR LIST.
IT DEPENDS EVERY QUARTER IT
VARIES BUT IT'S ANYWHERE
BETWEEN 50 AND 75.
I LOOK LIKE A MILLION DOLLARS I
CAN SEE NOW THERE'S USUALLY
ONLY LESS THAN TEN CONTRACTS
QUARTERLY THAT EXCEED A MILLION
DOLLARS.
BUT OF THAT TILL I SEE IN MANY
INSTANCES THERE'S NONE THAT ARE
IN IN THE ONE QUARTER THAT I
FOUND THAT THERE WAS ONE THAT
YOU KNOW YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND YOUR
STILL BUT IT RAISES THE
QUESTION OF YOU KNOW, WHAT WORK
ARE WE DOING IN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT SO THAT YOU KNOW
OUR FOLKS WHO ARE CONTRACTORS,
WHATEVER THEIR THEIR THEIR
INDUSTRY IS CAN COMPETE, YOU
KNOW, DO PEOPLE EVEN KNOW WHAT
THE PROCESS IS FOR QUALIFYING?
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, IN OUR INITIAL
CONVERSATION WITH COLIN LESLIE
IN MIND, I ASK THOSE QUESTIONS
WHERE ARE YOU RECRUITING?
WHERE YOU PUBLISHING THE
INFORMATION?
I EVEN ASKED THE QUESTION HOW
MANY ARE MINORITY WOMEN
BUSINESS OWNERS?
HOW MANY HOW DO YOU KNOW WHAT
THE MAKEUP OF THEIR
ORGANIZATION IS BECAUSE EVERY
EMPLOYER WITH 50 OR MORE
EMPLOYEES IS MANDATED TO
COMPLETE AN EQUAL ONE.
I'VE SAID THIS BEFORE IN
PREVIOUS MEETINGS AND SO IT'S
VERY EASY BY THE WAY TO DO
BECAUSE MY COMPANY THAT I WORK
FOR HAS TO DO ONE RIGHT JUST
LIKE OSHA MANDATES IT EVERY
EMPLOYER MUST POST AND ALSO
THREE HUNDRED LOG FROM FEBRUARY
ONE TO APRIL 30TH AND IT'S A
LISTING OF ANY ALL INCIDENTS OR
ACCIDENTS
WITH OR WITHOUT LOST
TIME.
SO IT'S EASY ENOUGH TO GET THIS
INFORMATION FROM THE
CONTRACTORS BECAUSE THEY'RE
MANDATED TO PROVIDE TO THE
VARIOUS FEDERAL ENTITIES.
IT'S EASY ENOUGH FOR THEM TO
RECRUIT LOCALLY BY SIMPLY
LISTING THEIR JOBS WITH
UNEMPLOYMENT.
THIS ISN'T ROCKET SCIENCE.
IT DOESN'T TAKE A LOT OF TIME
BUT I DON'T SEE WHERE WE'RE
MAKING A GOOD FAITH EFFORT TO
EVEN ENSURE THAT THEY'RE
COMPLIANT AND THAT WOULD BE THE
FOCUS OF OUR EFFORTS IN MEETING
WITH THESE INDIVIDUALS TO SEE
WHAT THEY'RE DOING, WHERE
THEY'RE DOING IT, WHAT ARE THE
RESULTS AND HOW ARE THEY
CONFIRMING OR VERIFYING EITHER
COMPLIANCE OR NOT.
SO LOOK FOR THE SUMMARY NEXT
MONTH OF WHAT HAS OCCURRED
THROUGH MARCH OF THIS YEAR AND
THEN YOU'LL SEE THE DRILL DOWN
OF KNOW AMOUNT NUMBER OF TOTAL
NUMBER OF CONTRACTORS, AMOUNT
OF THE CONTRACTORS EXCEEDING
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND ANY THAT
ARE IN ANN ARBOR.
AND THERE'S ANOTHER CATEGORY
WITH WONDERFUL GOING BY FOUR
THINGS TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND AND
ABOVE AND WE ONLY GET THOUSAND
FEET ABOVE I MEAN OH WE ONLY
GET THOSE THAT ARE OVER TWENTY
THOUSAND TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
BUT THAT YOU MIGHT DO IT I CAN
I CAN DRILL DOWN FURTHER
BECAUSE THIS IS YEAH THERE'S X
NUMBER THAT ARE IN TWENTY FIVE
TO FIFTY AND SOME THAT ARE I DO
IT FOR THOSE THAT ARE ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND OVER BUT I CAN
MAKE IT SMALLER AMOUNTS DOESN'T
HAVE TO BE A HUGE AMOUNT.
YEAH BUT I'D LIKE TO SEE SOME
OF THOSE CHUNKS BECAUSE IT
SEEMS LIKE SOME OF THEM ARE
MORE LIKELY I'M ARE MORE YOU
WONDER WHY THEY'RE NOT LOCAL
THEY'RE NOT THE OTHER PIECE
THAT I'VE SEEN OVER THE YEARS
THAT WE'VE DONE THIS IS THE
SAME REPEAT CONTRACTORS.
YEAH.
YES BUT SO WE'LL SEE.
THAT'S INTERESTING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
YOU
WE COULD DO.
YEAH, COULD MAKE A REAL
DIFFERENCE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES
COULD REALLY BE.
ABSOLUTELY YEAH THAT IS THE END
OF YOUR BUSINESS.
IS THERE ANY NEW BUSINESS I
WOULD ACTUALLY LIKE TO LIFT UP
DRIVE SAFE LEGISLATION THAT WAS
INTRODUCED.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW HOW THAT THAT
SEPARATION THAT WOULD BE
COMMUNICATION NOT NECESSARILY
IT COULD BE PUT ON ITS NEW
BUSINESS BUT YEAH I THOUGHT IT
BUT LET'S FIND OUT, OK.
ARE THERE MORE LET'S JUST LET'S
GET A LIST OF IT FIRST AND THEN
SAY ANYTHING ELSE AND THEN IT'S
UP TO YOU OK.
DRIVE SAFE.
EXPLAIN AND TELL ME EVERYTHING.
OK SO FOR BACKGROUND JUST IN
CASE FOLKS HAVEN'T THOUGHT
ABOUT THIS FOR A WHILE THE REAL
I.D. ACT THAT WAS PASSED BACK
IN THE EARLY 2000S SEVERELY
RESTRICTED FOLKS WHO COULD
ACTUALLY EVEN APPLY FOR
DRIVER'S LICENSE BEGINNING WITH
FOLKS THAT DON'T HAVE PROOF
OF LEGAL PRESENCE IN THE UNITED
STATES PRIOR TO 2007 IF YOU
WERE A RESIDENT OF MICHIGAN,
YOU COULD APPLY FOR A DRIVER'S
LICENSE.
THE ISSUE TO DRIVE THOSE
LICENSE AND WORK WELL, FOLKS
WERE IN TWO THOUSAND EIGHT.
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN BEGAN TO
ENFORCE ITS OWN VERSION
RESTRICTING APPLICATIONS TO A
STATE I.D. AND DRIVER'S
LICENSES ONLY TO FOLKS THAT HAD
PROOF OF LEGAL PRESENCE IN THE
COUNTRY.
THERE WAS EVEN AN ATTORNEY
GENERAL RULING THAT FOLKS
WITHOUT PROOF OF LEGAL PRESENCE
COULDN'T BE DEEMED RESIDENTS
YET CHALLENGING REALLY THE
COMMONSENSE DEFINITION OF THE
WORD RIGHT.
REZA?
SO AS A RESULT NOW IDS,
DRIVER'S LICENSES THAT FOLKS
WOULD HAVE HAD IT WOULD HAVE
EXPIRED CERTAINLY THE LAST TWO
THOUSAND 11 2012.
SO WHAT ARE WE TALKING ABOUT
NOW 11 OR 12 YEARS THAT
MICHIGAN RESIDENTS HAVE HAD TO
DRIVE WITHOUT A DRIVER'S
LICENSE OR HAVE HAD TO WORK
WITHOUT BEING ABLE TO DRIVE
BECAUSE THEY COULDN'T REALLY
IT'S IMPOSED A HARDSHIP AND
IT'S IMPOSED A HARDSHIP ON A
COMMUNITY WHETHER PEOPLE WANT
TO DISCUSS IT OR NOT HAVE
JUDGMENTS ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A COMMUNITY
THAT LIFTS THE ENTIRE ECONOMY
OF THE STATE AND SUPPORTS
DIFFERENT INDUSTRIES WITHIN IT
.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
UNDOCUMENTED UNDOCUMENTED
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE NOT ABLE
UNTIL THEY'RE DRIVING WITHOUT A
LICENSE FOR DRIVING OR NOT
DRIVING OR NOT DRIVING OR GOING
DRIVE AND NOT BEING ABLE TO
WORK.
I MEAN THERE ARE LOTS
OF REASONS OBJECTED TO TO THE
STATE POLICE OF WHATEVER THAT
OUTCOME IS.
FOLKS ARE STOPPED FOR DRIVING
AND THEY DON'T HAVE A DRIVER'S
LICENSE.
I CAN ONLY ASSUME THAT PEOPLE
ARE STILL BEING ISSUED TICKETS
FOR THAT BUT IN MANY CASES IT
FLIES IN THE FACE OF WHAT WE
KNOW.
WE KNOW THAT SOMEONE IS A
RESIDENT OF THE STATE BECAUSE
THEY LIVE HERE.
I KNOW THAT WHEN WE FIRST
LAUNCHED THE WASHTENAW ID WE
DID A SURVEY AND OVER 80
PERCENT OF ALL FOLKS WHO DIDN'T
HAVE PROOF OF LEGAL PRESENCE
HAD BEEN HERE OVER 11 YEARS
LIKE THIS IS HOME AND DRIVE
SAFE LEGISLATION WAS INTRODUCED
ORGANIZED BY WE THE PEOPLE AND
THEIR BILLS BASICALLY THAT HAVE
GONE THROUGH BOTH HOUSES OF THE
STATE LEGISLATURE, BOTH HOUSES
AND NOT BEEN BROUGHT UP FOR A
VOTE.
SO EVERY YEAR THE BILLS HAVE
BEEN REINTRODUCED AND THEY
DON'T MAKE IT OUT OF COMMITTEE
OR THEY NEVER COME UP FOR A
VOTE.
IT IS NOW I THINK THREE YEARS
SINCE THE BILLS WERE FIRST
INTRODUCED AND WE MAY LOSE THE
DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY SO THEY DID
NOT COME UP?
NO NOTHING.
NO, THEY'VE NOT RECEIVED A
VOTE.
ALL RIGHT.
I DID SOME CALLING AND IT SEEMS
AS IF THERE'S I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE THE NATURE OF THE
RELUCTANCE OR IS CERTAINLY NOT
FROM OUR WASHTENAW COUNTY OR
ANN ARBOR CITY REPRESENTATIVES
BUT OUT IN THE STATE RELUCTANCE
TO END THE PUNITIVE I GUESS
AVAILABILITY OF DRIVER'S
LICENSE STILL AND REALLY ZERO
IN ON FEDERAL RESIDENT CITY AS
OPPOSED TO STATE RESIDENCY.
GO AHEAD.
SO HAS IT BEEN REINTRODUCED
THIS YEAR?
IT'S BEEN REINTRODUCED.
YES.
BUT AGAIN, NOT EVEN TAKEN UP.
NO.
AND I SPOKE WITH A COUPLE
OF FOLKS AND RECEIVED AN EMAIL
FROM JASON MORGAN,
REPRESENTATIVE JASON MORAN IN
HIS OFFICE AND THEY INDICATED
THAT IT WAS THE RELUCTANCE
OF SOME LEGISLATORS, EVEN
DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATORS TO ISSUE
DRIVER'S LICENSES JUST IT'S A
PRIVILEGE PEOPLE DIDN'T WANT.
I DON'T KNOW THE WHY DID THEY
WISH TO EXTEND IT DOES NOT
RESONATE FOR ME SO I CAN'T
REALLY SPEAK TO IT BUT I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE IF OUR COMMISSION
MAYBE WE COULD WORK WITH OTHER
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSIONS IN THE
STATE TO SEE IF WE COULD LIFT
UP THE KNOW THE ECONOMIC
REALITY OF THE WORK FOLKS DO
THE CONTRIBUTION AND YOU KNOW,
CHANGE OUR MINDSET ONE FROM ONE
THAT'S PUNITIVE TO ONE THAT
REALLY HEAVY DRIVING.
IF YOU TALK TO ANYBODY WITH THE
PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY'VE BEEN
VERY ACTIVE AND WE'RE GOOD.
YES, WE GIVE PEOPLE THE
ORGANIZING FOLKS.
YEAH.
YEAH I HAVE NOT SPOKEN DIRECTLY
WITH MARIA WHO WHO I KNOW AND
AT WORKED WITH A FABULOUS
ORGANIZER BUT I'M JUST I DON'T
HAVE ORGANIZING THOUGHTS ANY
OF COURSE JUST WANT TO
PARTICIPATE IN WHAT THEY'RE
DOING AND TAKE WHATEVER LIFTING
WE CAN DO.
BUT I WAS JUST THINKING THAT WE
COULD NETWORK WITH OTHER HUMAN
RIGHTS.
YES WE COULD COMMISSIONS AND
SEE WHAT MIGHT BE HELPFUL FOR
FOR FOLKS FOR WE THE PEOPLE AND
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS PUSHING
THIS THROUGH.
I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU
REALLY TALK ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS,
WHEN WE LOOK AT THE ENTIRE
STATE TAKING WHAT I THINK IS A
REALLY CHALLENGING POSITION IN
TERMS OF THE DEFINITION
OF RESIDENT AND TREATING A
DRIVER'S LICENSE WHICH IS
SUPPOSED TO GUARANTEE SAFETY ON
THE ROAD AND USING AS A
POLITICAL SORT OF WHIPPING
THERE IS A DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY
IN THIS STATE FOR A LITTLE BIT
LONGER.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO LAST LONG.
RIGHT.
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN THIS,
WE SHOULD ACT QUICKLY.
SO QUICK QUESTION.
KEEP IN THE DRIVER'S SEAT
EXCUSE ME LEGISLATION IS
DESIGNED TO DO WHAT RESTORE
WHAT WAS ALL GOOD?
OH YES.
TO BASICALLY IT WOULD AMEND THE
STATUTE THAT THAT YOU HAVE TO
PROVE RESIDENCY.
RIGHT.
AND SO THAT PEOPLE WHO WHO
RESIDE IN THE STATE IN THE
PHYSICAL SENSE COULD ONCE AGAIN
APPLY.
THE LAST TIME I LOOKED IN ONE
HOUSE HAD A STIPULATION IN IT
THAT IT HAD TO BE SO THAT THE
PERSON WHO COULD BENEFIT FROM
THIS WOULD HAVE TO BE OF LEGAL
RESIDENT HAVE A LEGAL PRESENCE
IN THE UNITED STATES, THE OTHER
HOUSE AND DID NOT HAVE THAT AND
I'M ASSUMING THAT THAT'S YOU
KNOW, IT'S A MAIN POINT BUT IF
THAT'S WHERE THE PROBLEM IS
RIGHT.
WHAT'S THE OBJECTION?
THAT'S I THINK I WAS SAYING I
CAN'T PRESENT IT IN A LOGICAL
OR REASONABLE RIGHT.
OK, I CAN'T CONTEXTUALIZE IT
BECAUSE TO ME IT IS NOT JUST
INHUMANE BUT UNREASONABLE.
RIGHT.
BUT I KNOW THAT I'M SORRY.
OH NO, NO, NO.
JUST TO THE EXTENT THAT WE HAVE
DRIVER'S LICENSES AND DRIVING
EXAMS AND DRIVING COURSES, IT'S
ABOUT SAFETY AND WE'VE REALLY
WE ARE NO LONGER PURSUING WHAT
SEEMS TO ME TO BE THE HUMANE,
REASONABLE, SAFE COURSE
OF ACTION.
SO SOMETHING MUST HAVE DICTATED
THIS CHANGE AND I ALWAYS LIKE
TO UNDERSTAND THE WHY YOU KNOW
WHAT IS AND THEN WHY AND SO
WELL I CAN TELL YOU BACK IN
2007 THE 9/11 COMMISSION ZEROED
IN ON THE FACT THAT SEVERAL
OF THE HIJACKERS TERRORISTS
OBTAINED DRIVER'S LICENSES FROM
THE DENHA OK AND THEY JUST
DECIDED THAT.
BUT FOR THOSE DRIVER'S LICENSES
I DON'T KNOW WHAT BECAUSE
HONESTLY IF YOU DID NOT NEED TO
SHOW A DRIVER'S LICENSE TO TAKE
PILOT LIKE RIGHT TO FLY A
PLANE, YOU DON'T NEED TO DO IT
TODAY.
THE PILOT EXAM SO I'M MORE
CURIOUS THAN ANYTHING SOMETHING
IS THAT WERE ENACTED BECAUSE
OF 9/11 THAT HAVE CHANGE WHAT
WAS SUBSEQUENTLY RESULTED IN IF
IT WAS IN PLACE PRIOR TO CAN
NOW BE GRANDFATHERED IN
SUBSEQUENTLY.
SO I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
EXPLORING THAT THAT IF YOU WERE
HERE PRIOR TO YOUR
GRANDFATHERED IN SUBSEQUENTLY
THAT WOULD HELP SOME FOLKS FOR
SURE.
WOULD HELP SOME.
YEAH.
THIS IS A TIME WHEN WE ARE VERY
AFRAID OF IMMIGRANTS AND I MEAN
I I DON'T KNOW IF WOULD BE THAT
EASY BUT I'M NOT SAYING IT IS
UP THEN I'M GOING BACK TO WHAT
AND WHY.
YOU KNOW AND THEN IF WE CAN
SHOW THE FALLOUT THAT IS
HARMING WE CAN MAYBE MAKE A
GOOD FAITH EFFORT THAT THERE
ARE MANY HERE INDIVIDUALS WHO
HAVE BEEN HERE FOR WHATEVER
PERIOD OF TIME, YOU KNOW, LAW
ABIDING CITIZENS CONTRIBUTING
TO THE ECONOMY.
YOU'VE NOT CUT YOURSELF OFF
FROM THAT MONEY TALKS.
YES, THAT'S RIGHT.
SO SO SO WHAT CAN WE DO AS THE
ENTIRE SEE WHAT'S IN OUR SCOPE.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS WE COULD
DO I THINK WE HAVE MORE POWER
IF WE COMBINED WITH OTHER HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSIONS OR OTHER
PEOPLE THE PROBABLY GO PROBABLY
GO TO WE THE PEOPLE AND FIND
OUT WHAT THEY WANT, WHAT THEY
WANT.
YOU KNOW.
OH ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY FINE BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE A STRATEGY.
WE DON'T HAVE A LEGISLATIVE
STRATEGY AND THEY DID IT RIGHT.
I WAS SAYING THE BECAUSE THE
STATE SENATORS REPRESENTATIVES
WHO ARE STALLING ARE NOT IN OUR
JURISDICTION DO WE KNOW THOSE
WHO HAVE OUR IN OUR
JURISDICTION SUPPORT?
YES, THEY DO.
OK, CAN WE ASK THEM TO RALLY
THEIR FELLOW SENATORS AND
REPRESENTATIVES AND I'LL TALK
WITH THE PEOPLE I SAW BECAUSE
THEY WERE SUCH GOOD ORGANIZERS
.
I'M SURE THEY'VE ALREADY
COVERED THAT AL QAIDA HOLDOUTS
TRYING TO COME UP WITH
STRATEGIES I GUESS OR
CONNECTING WITH FOLKS WHO MIGHT
HAVE INFLUENCE OVER THEM LIKE
OH SO YEAH WELL WELL I WILL
TALK WITH MARIA AND SEE IF
THERE'S ANYTHING IN PARTICULAR
THEY WOULD LIKE US TO DO.
GO, GO GO.
OK.
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN AT LEAST
LOOKING AT THE ARGUMENTS.
YEAH I'D LIKE TO SEE IT SO I
KNOW WHAT I'M DEALING WITH.
I DON'T WANT TO WORK ON I CAN
SEND YOU I CAN TELL YOU THAT
YOU DON'T THINK LAST YEAR ABOUT
IT BUT WHAT I'M THINKING IS WE
CONTACT THE STUDENTS TO ASK
THEM TO DO THINGS FOR US
PERIODICALLY.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE A GOOD AND YES
TOTALLY OR TACTIC OR PROJECT
THAT THEY MAY WANT TO TAKE ON.
RIGHT.
OR ASSIST WITH THE PEOPLE WITH
YOU KNOW, EITHER CONTACTING THE
LEGISLATURES, ALL OF THEM AND
SAYING WHAT IS YOUR POSITION
HERE IS AND CAN WE INVITE YOU
TO SUPPORT THIS?
I'M SURE THEY'RE NOT LOOKING
FOR WORK BUT WE HAVE PLENTY AND
WE HAVE LIMITED RESOURCES.
SO THAT SEEMS TO ME TO BE THE
NEXT BEST POTENTIAL RESOURCE
AND THEN YOU KNOW, FINDING OUT.
SO I WANT TO KNOW WHAT I'M
DEALING WITH BEFORE I JUMP UP
THERE AND SAY WHAT YOU SHOULD
DO SOMETHING.
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO LIFT THIS
ON TO SORT OF THE UNTIL OUR
IMMEDIATE AND RADAR BECAUSE WE
MAY LOSE THE DEMOCRAT YOU KNOW,
DEMOCRATIC CONTROL OF THE HOUSE
AND SENATE AND THEN HOW LONG
WILL IT TAKE FOR FOLKS TO GET
BEFORE THIS IS A NARROW
POSSIBLE FIRST TIME IN 40 YEARS
?
YEAH, YEAH.
WHEN I LOOK AT IT IT TOOK 40
SAID IT TOOK 40 YEARS TO GET
HERE SO ME AND MAYBE ANOTHER 40
YEARS IF WE DON'T WANT IT.
OK, SO AT LEAST AT LEAST WE CAN
WE JUST TOUCH BASE ON IT NEXT
TIME AT THEIR NEXT MEETING AND
HOPEFULLY THEN I'LL TALK TO
MARIA AND GOTTEN MORE
INFORMATION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR LOOKING
INTO THAT.
ANYTHING ELSE BEFORE WE ADJOURN
THEN CAN WE HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN SO VOTE IN FAVOR?
I GIVE ME A SO YOUR